---
layout: post
title: Web Apps vs Native Apps
---

To me, the clear winner between native apps and web apps would have to be web apps. My iPhone is full to near capacity with songs and pictures to the point where I can only afford to really have 2-3 apps not-built-in apps. Therefore, not only do I not have enough room for a ton of apps on my phone, I also don't have enough space to update apps more than a few times a year. I'm pretty sure a ton of people who have iPhones face the exact same problem so with social media such as Facebook, who's mobile web app is pretty stable and offers nearly everything the desktop version does, there's virtually no need to download an app unless you want notifications when your phone is in sleep mode. Then there's the huge coding difference between android and iOS phones that basically means the company has to have a completely different code for either operating system. And to top it all off there's the possibility that the native app you want needs to be paid for, which will almost never happen on a web app since going to a website is generally freee.

Although I believe web apps will triumph over native apps, I don't think web apps will completely anihilate native apps, at least not to the point where the App Store closes or anything. This is because unless web apps somehow advance to the point where gaming graphics are on the level of native apps, there will still be a market for native apps...but mostly for games. Social media and other more text or image based websites that don't need sophisticated animation will probably slowly fade away from the apps stores as responsive websites develope more and more.

If someone were to aks me whether they should learn to make web apps or native apps, I'd tell them to learn web apps first, spend the most time on those, but then learn at least the basics of how to make native apps. Having as much coding experience in your tool belt, to me, is the best way to keep ahead of competition. By learning just the basics of languages or concepts that may not necessarily be the fad at the moment youare able to at least fall back on that if a sudden change back happens or if a client you have would rather you made a native app. Definitely focus on the fad most if its obvious that it'll be promising but also make sure you're more well rounded than simply what's current.
